So now we will create our first react app
So our first project is moviemania
For that we are creating our first react app
So for that you have to create a folder
Whose name we will keep as moviemania
So keep in mind that everything should be in small letters
And after creating the folder moviemania
What you have to do is
If you are in windows 11 then you have to do shift plus right click
And click on open with code
So that your vs code editor will open in that folder
Okay
After that you will be able to see here
In the right top corner
You will see a toggle panel
You have to click on that
And a command prompt will open below
And after that you have to write a command
npx create react app
With this
What will happen is
The basic files and folders that you need in react app
Will be created automatically
You don't have to make it manually
So you will write here
npx create react app
And after that you will put a dot
What will happen is
This dot will ensure that
All the files in this folder
Will be created in this folder
All the files that are going to be created
Will be in this folder
So this dot ensures this
After that you will enter it
And this is a time taking process
Because a lot of things are installed in this
So it can take some time
So we will wait for this
So finally after creating react app
You will see something like this below
This will give you a message after success
And our react app is created
Okay
So now we will clear the terminal
With the CLS command
And after that we will make it smaller
So now you can see that
All the files and folders are created automatically
You didn't even make them
When you created this react app
It happened after that
And you can see a lot of things here
That have been created automatically
So now you will put another command here
With which you will be able to run your react app
You will be able to run it
You will be able to see it
So as soon as you run this command
What will happen is
That your react app will run automatically
And you will be able to see it
So as soon as you start npm
The development server runs here
And your react app will open automatically
On the browser
Okay
So this is our first react app
So congratulations
If this is your first react app
Now we will make changes in this
And we will
Make it reach the final project
So after this we will minimize it
And as long as we understand
These folders
And file structures
So basically see here
The main folders of our work
Are these two
Public and source
There are others too
But you will not be able to use the rest
As much as you will be able to use these two folders
Of public and source folder
So the main thing in the public folder
Is index.html
Apart from this all other things
Are of no use
You don't need to pay attention to them
So what is index.html
Here you can see all the content of the website
Here your react app is rendered
That means the website you are able to see
On the browser
Is inside index.html
The whole website
And you can see it
So when you will do the view page source
Here you will see index.html
After this
The second thing that comes
We have understood index.html
The main thing that comes
Is the source folder
In this you will be writing all your code
And when you have written all the code
The code that you will write here
All this code will go inside this source
And inside this source
There are many components
Here you will put the components inside the source
Now you will understand all that
Before that we will see
Inside the source there is one thing
Index.js file
What index.js file does
That
It renders the application
That means
Whatever code you have written inside your app.js
Here whatever you write inside app.js
What it does
It goes to index.js
And index.js
You send it to the public source
In index.html
So by sending it to public index.html
It renders it
Your website
Then it shows
So here you will be able to see
Inside the source there is app.js
So inside app.js you write your code
The code of the website
As it is already written here
I will show you
Everything
And what you see in the browser
So here
For example
Whatever is in this return statement
That is all the code
If I remove it
If I remove all this
And then I save it once
And here I
For now
I put this
Ok
Now I save it
See the whole app is empty
Everything was inside app.js
And as soon as we removed all the code
It is empty
Ok
So whatever you write here
It is written in your website
For now you should know this much
Now
What I have done here
I will slowly explain to you
So first of all
What is this
What is app.js
App.js is basically a component
What is component?
App.js is a component
Of the website of react
As you can see here
You can see the vs code editor
Let's assume this is a website
So the top part of vs code editor
Where the search is
This is a different component
Which we can call search component
The code you are writing in the middle
This is a different component
Where your folders are visible
In react you can code these parts separately
That is you can code it separately
You can code it separately
And you can code it separately
Then you can show these three together
As a website
So app.js is also here
The part you were seeing in app.js
Everything was written in app.js
So now
You will make changes here
And those changes will be seen in your browser
So let's assume
For example
We make a div here
We make a division tag
So
You must have seen in your html
What is div tag
This div is a basic div tag
In this you write anything
Like hello world
Here we write hello world
You wrote hello world in div
Now you will go to browser
So you will see here
Hello world as it is rendered here
So this is a basic functionality
You will say what is good in this
Now let's assume
You put a bracket here
Curly braces
And in curly braces you write
4 plus 4
If you are making normal websites
If you are using normal html
So what happens is
You see 4 plus 4
You only see 4 plus 4
You write hello world bracket 4 plus 4
But when you see here
You will see hello world and 8
This means
You can do logical implementation
In your html
You can add logics in your code
If you were in html
You will see 4 plus 4
But if you are in react
You will see calculated value
Now let's do this
With one more thing
Let's assume
You made a variable
What is a variable
You must have known
But then I will tell you
Variables are basically
Used to store any value
Where we make a variable
In javascript
Variable is made in this way
Name of const and variable
Whatever name you give
In question
We give it some value
Like we give react
React here
And what we do after this
In this curly braces
We pass name
And when we save it
You will see
Hello world reacted
You can see
Dynamically values are changing
You can also use variables
In code
So how convenient it is
How useful it is
You must be able to understand
So this was the basics
About our react folders
And basic things
So now
We will know it better
Let's move forward